In this demo, you're going to add product slides to the presentation,
and add images on there.
You will be dynamically generating product slides for
each product in the product list,
and add the relevant product image on the slide,
and draw an outline around the image on the slide to make it stand out.
In the product presentation class, go to the method, addProductSlide.
Let's first create a blank slide.
For that, retrieve the default slide master as before,
and get the layout, BLANK.
Then using the blank slide layout,
create a new slide on the PowerPoint presentation.
Now to this slide, you are going to add the product image.
For that, follow the steps that you saw in the previous clip.
First, open up a FileInputStream, to it,
pass in the image file path,
which you can get from the product object passed in here,
by calling getImageFile method,
which will return the product image file path as a string.
Wrap it around try with resources, handle the exceptions.
Now read the image file data by calling IOUtils.toByteArray method into
a byte array. And the next step is to add the picture to the PowerPoint,
passing in the pictureData byte array, and specifying the type of
picture by passing in PictureType enum constant as JPEG, as our product
images are of that type.
This will give a XSLFPictureData object in return.
Now, create the picture on the slide, passing in the
PictureData to draw the actual shape inside which the
picture will be placed on the slide.
It will result in a XSLFPictureShape object.
Now this shape can be positioned in a desired location on the slide by
calling setAnchor method on it. You will need to specify the X position,
let's give 100. The Y position, let's give 100. The width of the image,
let's give 225, and the height also as 225.
As you can see, it specified using the java.awt.Rectangle class.
Finally, call the setLineColor method of the PictureShape, and set
the outline color to gray, for example; and a setLineWidth method,
passing in a value of five,
for example, to draw a thin outline around the image. As you
can see, there are more methods using, which you can format
and style the picture, as required.
Now, you need to call this method inside the addContentSlides method.
This method gets the passed in list of productData.
This list needs to be looped through to generate product
slides dynamically for each product.
So add this for loop, and inside, call the addProductSlide
method, passing in the ppt and a product object.
Now,
call the addContentSlides method inside the generateProductPresentation method.
Save and run the application.
You can see now that the product presentation has a bunch of product
slides added to it, with a product image on them.
Now we should fill them with the rest of the content. You will see how to do that in the next clip.